---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-07-12
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-07-12
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-07-12

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jul/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/07/12-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Ruben Taelman, Benjamin Young, Adam Soroka, Dave Longley, David I. Lehn, David Newbury, Pierre-Antoine Champin

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. scribe selection
{: #section1}

### 2. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section2}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-06-28-json-ld** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0 (not present)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-06-28-json-ld***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

### 3. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Standing TPAC reminder
{: #section3-1}

#### 3.2. Other announcements
{: #section3-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://adaptivecards.io/](https://adaptivecards.io/)

**Benjamin Young:** talking with team at MS building ^^^^  

**Benjamin Young:** they are wondering if JSON-LD can map into their tempalting space  
… they are excited about what that might do to avoid being dependent on particular key names  
… I'm going to follow up with them in a month  
… . JSON-LD evangelism is good!  
… if there are people who need some contact I can help  
… or let us know how your own efforts are going  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. @source and @propagates
{: #section4-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108)

> *Rob Sanderson:* link:  [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/174](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/174)

> *Benjamin Young:* there's also a related API PR [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/112](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/112)

**Gregg Kellogg:** we should probably have created a new issue  
… `@propagate` defines how scoped contexts are managed when traversing properties;  
… by default type scoped contexts are droped when traversing; property scoped contexts are kept  

> *Rob Sanderson:* preview: [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/200.html#context-propagation](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/200.html#context-propagation)

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are caveats when contexts are in arrays.  
… @azaroth and @pchampin proposed to change the default for type scoped contexts. This should be discussed in a different issue.  
… Another discussion was about what could be used together with `@source` and `@propagate`.  
… I argued that `@version` should be also used. `@protected` could be used also.  

> *Benjamin Young:* syntax PR [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/200](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/200)

**Gregg Kellogg:** And term definitions could be used to "edit" the sourced context.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/112](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/112)

**Gregg Kellogg:** This is reflected in two PRs (in syntax and api).  
… One of the question is whether `@source` is the correct keyword,  
… since this is not just a reference to a context (it can be customized).  

> *Dave Longley:* i'm currently in the `@import` camp for bikeshed colors

**Rob Sanderson:** You said it only works if the sourced context is an object, and not an array?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes, the implementation of `@propagate` is complicated, especilally identifying what needs to be unwind.  
… Arrays make it harder to figure it out.  

**Rob Sanderson:** This limitations should be checked agains use cases.  
… In XXX, we do have an array containing the Web Annotation context, then another redefining some terms.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this could be done by a context object sourcing the Web Annotation context, and customizing it in the same object.  
… This would actually be more faithful to the intention.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Thus: `@context: { "@source": "http://www.w3.org/ns/anno.jsonld", "@propagate": true, "label": { ... } }`

**Dave Longley:** There was no way in JSON-LD to inline edit a context when importing it.  
… What @azaroth wants to do is exactly that.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** The danger is that the remote context may change, then the edits may become inaccurate.  
… SRI in this situation could be useful, to assert something about the context being referenced.  

**Dave Longley:** +1, and the constraint of having a context object (as opposed to array) would also apply to SRI  
… with arrays, this would be very brittle  
… as arrays could reference other contexts  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** this constraint (the referenced context only being an object) looked very complicated to me at first  
… it's started to make more sense  
… but if we want to make this a thing, it should have a name  
… a well-identified notion  
… we might want to reuse it in other parts of the spec  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I _think_ we do  
… we talk about it in the API algo  
… but we may not have a term defined  

> *Dave Longley:* figuring out the language might have to do with talking about contexts as "composable" or not ... at least via certain features

**Gregg Kellogg:** for that matter, we don't have terms for a type-scoped context vs. a property-scoped context  

**Rob Sanderson:** it would be useful to know about implementation status on this. Can we test it now in the distiller?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it is currently on a branch, but I can make it available in the distiller.  
… I was waiting for us to discuss it, and settle the `@source`/`@import` question.  

**Rob Sanderson:** what about the python and JS implementations?  

**Dave Longley:** we don't have a timeline for python at the moment  

**David I. Lehn:** neither for JS  

**Rob Sanderson:** as for `@source` vs. `@import`, let's have a strawpoll  

> *Benjamin Young:* Those for `@source` please +1

> *Dave Longley:* -1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +0

> *Rob Sanderson:* -0

> *Benjamin Young:* -1

> *Adam Soroka:* +0

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +0

> *Ruben Taelman:* -1

> *David Newbury:* +0

> *Benjamin Young:* Those for `@import` please +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +0.5

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: change `@source` to `@import`***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* :shipit:

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is some pressure to get a new working draft  
… (discussion on whether we need to wait for feedback on the PRs)  

> *Benjamin Young:* merged [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/202](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/202)

#### 4.2. Content addressable contexts
{: #section4-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/9](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/9)

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to closing, no normative change needed

**Benjamin Young:** this one has been closed and re-opened...  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to closing, handled elsewhere

**Gregg Kellogg:** I'd like to close it as an issue for the normative documents. Create a new one for the BP  

> **Proposed resolution: close #9 with no action needed; solved via DocumentLoader and possible content for the Best Practices** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: close #9 with no action needed; solved via DocumentLoader and possible content for the Best Practices***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

#### 4.3. JSON-LD in HTML
{: #section4-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172)

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/103](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/103)

**Benjamin Young:** #172 is Manu raising the problem of parsing text/html context documents.  
… #103 is about changes in the document's base URL for embeded JSON-LD.  
… Let's discuss them separately, starting with #103.  
… The Web Publishing WG is rechartering. They are planning to focus on an audio-book format (using JSON-LD in a separate file).  
… Their work on JSON-LD in HTML would be moved to the CG.  
… So if the use case for #103 is too specific, we could decide to not address it.  

**Rob Sanderson:** (asks a question about setting the base URL to null)  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 for consistency :)

**Gregg Kellogg:** if base is set to null, relative URIs are not resolved at all  
… but in the case of JSON-LD is embedded, I think the URL of the embedding document is used  
… There has been a concern about the fact that base can be dynamically modified.  

**Dave Longley:** I remember use cases where people wanted relative URIs to survive compaction/expansion.  
… We are well aligned with what others are doing.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 for supporting package-scoped things

**Benjamin Young:** I think the behaviour of *not* resolving URIs when the base is set to null, should be made explicit (if it is not already)  

> ***Action #1: Benjamin Young to research the status `@base: null` and possibly suggest making things clearer***
{: #action1 .action}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#data-block](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#data-block)

**Gregg Kellogg:** it is possible that it is explicit in the API doc, but not the syntax doc  

**Benjamin Young:** from an HTML perspective, any attribute of the script tag should be ignored  
… #103 should be taken care of by the action created above.  
… Now discussing #172: context documents embeded in a text/html document.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Note that the spec currently mentions this use case.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to making it more palatable

**Gregg Kellogg:** There was concern about naming the HTML-enabled processors "full processors",  
… implying that otherprocessors are not "fully compliant"  

**Rob Sanderson:** as soon as we decided to make JSON-LD in HTML, we open the door to this;  
… so some JSON-LD will not be available to a non "full processor"  

**Benjamin Young:** currently, contexts are all in JSON-LD documents.  
… There does not seem to be a demand for embedding contexts in HTML documents.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to bigbluehat, "contexts" are all in JSON-LD documents, don't change that ... fine to talk about how to pull JSON-LD blocks out of HTML

**Benjamin Young:** Additionnally, we would need a different content-type for data-blocks, to distinguish contexts from data.  
… For me, the fact that JSON-LD can be embedded in data-blocks was not normatively defined by JSON-LD; it was normatively defined by HTML.  
… I never expected a JSON-LD processor to get itseld the embeded JSON-LD from the data-block.  

> *Dave Longley:* -1 to massive shifts that complicate all the things.

**Gregg Kellogg:** one demand is from schema.org:  
… they would be happy to *not* have to perform content-negociation,  
… and serve their context directly in the HTML homepage.  
… Re. content-type, we don't need a new one, merely a content-type parameter for distinguishing contexts.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-493257482](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-493257482)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-501884159](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-501884159)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-502164325](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/172#issuecomment-502164325)

**Benjamin Young:** danbri did mentioned that he didn't want to put the actual (big) schema.org context in the HTML page;  
… merely a small context referencing the original context  

> *Dave Longley:* -1 to using a hammer to solve a problem that may smash everything around it to bits

**Benjamin Young:** What happended before (content-negociation + redirection) was happening outside the JSON-LD processor.  
… Now, we forced this in the JSON-LD processor, making it a much bigger animal.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I see things differently.  
… As we have JSON-LD data in HTML documents, we can not make contexts in HTML invalid.  
… Would JSON-LD data with a context in it be invalid?  

> *Dave Longley:* -1000 to referencing an HTML document as a remote context

**Rob Sanderson:** This would make no sense.  
… The question we could ask is: is it valid to reference an HTML-embeded context from another JSON-LD document?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to explicit justifications

**Gregg Kellogg:** topic for next week: we need a story to justify the perceived "bloat" in JSON-LD 1.1  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-06-28-json-ld
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): change `@source` to `@import`
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): close #9 with no action needed; solved via DocumentLoader and possible content for the Best Practices

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Benjamin Young to research the status `@base: null` and possibly suggest making things clearer