---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-05-03
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-05-03
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-05-03-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-05-03",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-05-03",
            "endDate": "2019-05-03",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Longley"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "tim cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-05-03

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019May/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/05/03-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Ruben Taelman, Benjamin Young, Dave Longley, David I. Lehn, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Adam Soroka, Jeff Mixter, tim cole, Rob Sanderson

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Dave Longley, Ruben Taelman

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call:
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-04-26-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-04-26-json-ld)

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: last week's minutes accepted***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

**Benjamin Young:** Ivan and I will be at the Publishing WG next week  
… The call on the 17th is during The Web Conference. Should we cancel?  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Indexing without a predicate
{: #section3-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* link:  [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* Related [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/52](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/52)

**Benjamin Young:** this is issue is also known as `@included`  
… proposed by azaroth  
… there is a related proposal by gkellogg  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are several ways of doing something like id-ref  
… one of them would be to combine `@nest` and `@container:@id`  
… Rob's proposal would better be handled in expansion (this is where syntactic sugar is removed).  
… Properties declared as e.g. `@container:@include` would look into a special `@include` container.  
… Problem with compaction, which can not easily reverse this kind of extension.  
… More appropriate in Framing.  
… Seems quite complex and convoluted, with a lot of corner cases.  

**Ivan Herman:** azaroth asks to defer that topic until he can join  

#### 3.2. More compact `@prefix`
{: #section3-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/76](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/76)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* related: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/77](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/77)

**Benjamin Young:** proposal from rubenworks, to make it simpler to declare `@prefix` terms  

**Ruben Taelman:** a similar thing is already possible with `@reverse`, so it should not be too hard to add in implementations  

**Dave Longley:** is this an error?  
… what do we do when `@id` and `@prefix` are both strings and they disagree? is that an error?  
… my understanding is that the proposal is that `"@prefix": `<string>`` is just syntactic magic for `"@id": `<string>`, "@prefix": true`  
… not a replacement  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it is with `@reverse`, so it should be an error, yes  
… there is a point in the issue about terms which are not appropriate as prefixes  
… there are two aspects in the PR: 1/ use `@prefix` where the value is an IRI, while the current practice is to use `@id` with an IRI, and `@prefix` is a boolean. Should we obsolete the current practice?  
… 2/ what if the value of `@prefix` is a pname?  

**Ruben Taelman:** [answers to gkellogg]  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we must keep in mind the JSON 1.0 behavior  

**Ruben Taelman:** I see this as an alternate representation  

**Ivan Herman:** does the combination of `@id` and `@prefix:false` come up in practice?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are reasons to use it. I don't know if it is used in the wild?  

**Ivan Herman:** that would be a reason to keep the current practice, and consider the new version as a shorthand  
… and I wouldn't be shocked if the new notation `@prefix:IRI` was roundtripped to `@id+@prefix:true`  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we don't roundtrip contexts anyway  

**Benjamin Young:** there seems to be a consensus on considering the proposal as a shorthand for the current syntax  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#compact-iris](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#compact-iris) (for current text)

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are some implications; must be some working on the implications of combinations of `@id` and `@prefix`  
… you probably would not use the prefix term as a property  

> *Dave Longley:* perhaps if `@prefix` is a string, then also including `@id` is an error ... and then process `@prefix` as a string first and do the transformation to `@id: `<string>`, @prefix: true`

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#example-32-using-explicit-prefix-declaration-to-create-compact-iris](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#example-32-using-explicit-prefix-declaration-to-create-compact-iris)

**Benjamin Young:** `@id+@prefix:true` feels a lot like using `@vocab`  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it works a little differently in the compactIRI algo  
… we are going contrary the trend of moving compact IRIs away  
… the reason it is there is that, in 1.0, many terms were used to build compact IRIs, but were not intended to do that  
… eg: Sport := schema:Sport, then using Sport:Event  
… `@prefix` was a way of capturing the intention of the creator of the term  

> *Dave Longley:* lots of unwanted CURIEs being greedily generated in 1.0

**Benjamin Young:** strange compact IRIs can be used maliciously, to misdirect users to an unexpected endpoint URL  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/155](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/155)

**Dave Longley:** I like the syntax, makes it more obvious that the term is intended to be used as a prefix  
… even though I don't like CURIEs in general  
… in JSON-LD  
… It was a mistake in 1.0 to allow any term to be used as a prefix  

> *Benjamin Young:* curie spec [https://www.w3.org/TR/curie/](https://www.w3.org/TR/curie/)

**Benjamin Young:** I agree with that  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Proposal is not to make `@prefix:false` the default?  

**Dave Longley:** No  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we *did* change 1.0 behavior by limiting the terms that can be used as prefixes  
… only IRIs ending with gen-delims can be used as prefixes  

> *Dave Longley:* instead of just "property"

> *Benjamin Young:* gendelim [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2.2)

**Ivan Herman:** what does `@prefix:false` means?  

> *Ivan Herman:* for the records: [https://tinyurl.com/yxw7qv98](https://tinyurl.com/yxw7qv98) (example)

**Gregg Kellogg:** it means that we do not want this term to be used by compaction to generate a compact IRI  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#example-32-using-explicit-prefix-declaration-to-create-compact-iris](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#example-32-using-explicit-prefix-declaration-to-create-compact-iris)

**Gregg Kellogg:** for expansion, it does not matter whether `@prefix` is true or false  

**Dave Longley:** if you click on compact in the link above  
… by copying the context to the right and changing the value of `@prefix`  
… you can see the difference  
… but you can't make a term *only* a prefix, this is a 1.0 problem, we can't go back  

**Gregg Kellogg:** but we could define `@prefix:IRI` to  mean exactly that  
… but we still mean `@prefix:false`  

**Dave Longley:** yes, but that would differ from what we said earlier. This is not syntactic sugar anymore  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** another way would be add 3 values for @prefix  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to PA

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** `@default` would say you can use this prefix as a term  
… `false` as you can not use this as prefix  
… `true`, the proposed new meaning that gregg proposed about @prefix IRI  
… this way we can keep backwards compatibility with 1.0  

> **Proposed resolution: dlongley and pchampin to craft alternate proposal to #76 with `@prefix` having 3 values** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1 sure

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

**Dave Longley:** the third value would be an IRI, and we're back to what gkellogg just proposed  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: dlongley and pchampin to craft alternate proposal to #76 with `@prefix` having 3 values***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

### 4. spec release cadence
{: #section4}

**Gregg Kellogg:** we are processing issues slowly  
… we have not released a draft in a while  

> *Benjamin Young:* discussing this column: [https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4#column-3279307](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4#column-3279307)

**Gregg Kellogg:** some issues in the management console are editorial work  
… [enumerates which issues should be addressed after or before the next working draft]  
… I would like to segment the issues for discussion,  
… between those who are standing in the way of releasing a WD,  
… and those that can be discussed afterwards  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* ... [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#inheriting-base-iri-from-html-s-base-element](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-syntax/#inheriting-base-iri-from-html-s-base-element)

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to consolidating all the HTML stuff under document loader

**Ivan Herman:** we can close the issue about HTML base; there is a text in the document  

**Gregg Kellogg:** another editorial issue is pushing forward the documentLoader,  
… so that we can move all the HTML processing into the documentLoader  
… problem: this changes the interface of the documentLoader,  
… so might be consider as a backward compatibility issue  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 as well

**Rob Sanderson:** working drafts are just... working draft  
… we can release one now, as long as the editors are not embarrassed by what's in there  
… it is still to be considered as work in progress anyway  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to azaroth

**Rob Sanderson:** we don't need to finish anything before releasing it  

**Gregg Kellogg:** given how long it's been since the last WD, the next one is going to be quite consequential  
… if we decide to defer the discussion on documentLoader, I can release a WD this afternoon  
… We still should address bigbluehat's discussion about contexts being IRIs (identifiers) or URLs (dereferenceable)  

**Dave Longley:** I'm surprised that the spec says that documentLoader returns a string;  
… any other text in the spec is written as if it returned a document  
… so the returning a string is a spec error  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I agree. This could be fixed easily.  
… The error may have been introduced after 1.0, with the migration to the next ReSpec version.  

**Benjamin Young:** regarding my remarks on contexts IRI vs. URL,  
… the abstracting behind documentLoader would solve that problem.  
… Putting this change in a WD, very early after we have discussed it,  
… would be new for this WG. We have to be aware of that.  

**Dave Longley:** I checked: the problem with the definition of documentLoader was not in 1.0; it has been introduced by 1.1.  

> **Proposed resolution: gkellogg should publish a new WD containing the proposed `documentLoader` changes https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/85 which will be discussed at a future time.** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Dave Longley:** so we can safely fix it back.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: gkelloggg should publish a new WD containing the proposed `documentLoader` changes https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/85 which will be discussed at a future time.***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): last week's minutes accepted
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): dlongley and pchampin to craft alternate proposal to #76 with `@prefix` having 3 values
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): gkelloggg should publish a new WD containing the proposed `documentLoader` changes https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/85 which will be discussed at a future time.