---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-09
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-08-09
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-09-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-09",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-09",
            "endDate": "2019-08-09",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-08-09

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Aug/0009.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/09-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Adam Soroka, Benjamin Young, Ruben Taelman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Gregg Kellogg, Tim Cole, Dave Longley

**Regrets:** Rob Sanderson, David Newbury

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Scribe Selection
{: #section1}

### 2. Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-02-json-ld
{: #section2}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +0

> ***Resolution #1: minutes approved***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 3. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Standing TPAC reminder
{: #section3-1}

**Benjamin Young:** I hope everyone's booked  

**Ivan Herman:** if the DID WG is accepted, there will be a F2F on Monday  
… that might cause a conflict with the Web Publishing WG  

### 4. issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. Consider obsoleting use of blank nodes for properties and "generalized RDF"
{: #section4-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Issue 37](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37)

**Benjamin Young:** we more or less already agreed to deprecate this one  
… but it turns out that ActivityStreams is using a bnode `@vocab`  
… Note that AS is part of AvivityPub, which is used by Mastodon and other  
… All those people get worrying warnings when using the AS context.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is a comment in there, indicating that they don't believe that they are actually creating any property.  
… pchampin suggested to raise the warning only when the bnode `@vocab` *does* create a bnode property  
… I think that solves Mastodon's issue. I did it in my implementation.  

**Benjamin Young:** could this warning be limited to 1.1 mode?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes  

**Benjamin Young:** is this the default? because these people are not parsing JSON-LD 1.1, AFAIK  

**Gregg Kellogg:** actually, that's right, the warning is not mode dependent  
… the purpose of the warning is precisely to warn people that his may go away in the *future*  

**Ruben Taelman:** are these warnings specified in the spec or implementation specific?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the spec says "feature at risk". It does not actually says anything about issuing a warning.  
… We indeed do not specify how warnings are issued.  
… I usually use a 'validation' flag to decide whether warning are issued or not,  
… although obviously I didn't to that in that case.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#h-issue-0](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#h-issue-0)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#h-note-3](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#h-note-3)

**Benjamin Young:** distributed documents are long lived,  
… we should take this into account when it comes to issuing warnings.  
… The person we are targetting here is the context author.  
… Hence my suggestion to limit the warning to 1.1 mode,  
… meaning "it will still work here, but may break in the future".  
… People mining old 1.0 data will get the warning, but there is nothing they can do about it.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** without warnings, the developers will not get pressure from their user to drop deprecated features  
… the 'validation' flag is probably a good way to solve this  

**Dave Longley:** there are a lot of implementations that can only report errors, not warnings  

**Benjamin Young:** so do we need to change the spec?  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11-api/#algorithm-2](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11-api/#algorithm-2)

**Gregg Kellogg:** we need to be clearer about the bnode properties  

**Benjamin Young:** should we recommend an alternative to the bnode $MD_CODE$?  
… such as a "fake bnode" IRI acting as a catch-all for undefined properties?  
… The AS context shows that there is a need for that;  
… JSON users do not like their properties to *disappear* through JSON-LD processing.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the most suitable replacement would be `"@vocab": "#"`  
… this is common in other uses of RDF,  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to `"@vocab": "#"`

**Gregg Kellogg:** and the reason why we allowed relative IRIs as `@vocab`  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37#issuecomment-515799176](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37#issuecomment-515799176)

> *Benjamin Young:* [and in the spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#data-model)

**Gregg Kellogg:** If we provide such an alternative to bnode properties, we can change the 'AT RISK's to simple notes.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0)

**Dave Longley:** when we go to CR, I'm afraid people would object to bnode properties if we remove the 'AT RISK'...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** these AT RISK are not normative. We could leave them for CR, and remove them afterwards.  

**timecole:** for me the purpose of 'AT RISK' is testing; it draws the attention to points that we are not sure can be implemented.  

**Ivan Herman:** timCole is right. It is used to mark features that can be removed if they lack implementation, without having to go through CR again.  

> **Proposed resolution: turn blank node issue [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0) into a note to suggest new context authors avoid using `"@vocab": "_:"` as well as direct use of blank nodes as properties.** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* This would be a note that accompanies 1.1?

> *Dave Longley:* +0 fine with me

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +0.5

> ***Resolution #2: turn blank node issue [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0) into a note to suggest new context authors avoid using `"@vocab": "_:"` as well as direct use of blank nodes as properties.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Gregg Kellogg:** we will then turn the 'AT RISK' issues into notes;  
… we will recommend to use `#` relative IRIs instead;  
… we will suggest to issue a warning whenever a bnode property is generated.  
… None of these points are normative. So they don't need more WG action.  

**Dave Longley:** if don't have a base IRI set and use a relative IRI for the $MD_CODE$,  
… then properties will *still* be dropped when converted to RDF.  
… So we are improving the situation, but not solving it 100%.  

> **Proposed resolution: close [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37) once blank node property issue is changed to a note** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: close [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37) once blank node property issue is changed to a note***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

#### 4.2. What is null base URL for an embedded json-ld?
{: #section4-2}

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Issue 103](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/103)

**Benjamin Young:** the question is raised when JSON-LD is embedded in HTML or anything.  

**Ivan Herman:** someone came up with this example involving `data:` URL and iframe,  
… leading to a situation where the base URL is not clear.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the fact that it is in HTML does not change anything,  
… the processor tries to determine the base URL based on the source document URL.  

> **Proposed resolution: close #103 as wontfix because the JSON-LD document would be treated as if it were alone--and not embedded.** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** the problem is the use of the data: URL. The question is not JSON-LD specific. It would be the same with HTML  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is a TAG issue  

**Ivan Herman:** It is a HTML problem. Whatever HTML does, we do it.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Benjamin Young:** and if HTML has no answer wrt to the base URL, then you are on your own.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> ***Resolution #4: close #103 as wontfix because the JSON-LD document would be treated as if it were alone--and not embedded.***
{: #resolution4 .resolution}

#### 4.3. Please review https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/132
{: #section4-3}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See also the [editorial PR issue from Pierre-Antoine](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/132)

#### 4.4. Link header for HTML and JSON-LD
{: #section4-4}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Issue 204](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/204)

**Gregg Kellogg:** this was trying to rely to danbri's concern about relying on content negotiation  
… the best solution I came up with was to rely on a link HTTP header  
… A JSON-LD processor expecting a context at a given URL would check for this header,  
… and follow the link if any.  

**Ivan Herman:** other people do that, with `rel="manifest"`  
… the Web Publication WG does something similar with `rel="publication"`  
… we can bikeshed about what `rel` value we want. But this makes sense.  

**Ruben Taelman:** link headers are not always possible on static websites, e.g. github pages.  

**Benjamin Young:** just to be clear, the link header we are talking about is a HTTP header, *not* HTML `$MD_CODE$`  
… It is not as common as content negotiation on static sites.  
… So we should specify that JSON-LD processors should first try content-negotiation,  
… if it fails, it should try HTML (which implies embedding a HTML parser)  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to link headers, -1 to involving HTML processing *at all* w/context processing as it breaks the ecosystem

**Benjamin Young:** then it should check the link header.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I think this solution makes sense  
… whether content negotiation has priority or not, I think this would be nice to have  
… the way I saw it this was a way to get rid of a dependency on HTTP  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is all because the desire of schema.org (and may be others)  
… to avoid doing content negotiation.  
… Whenever we can't do conneg nor HTTP headers,  
… we are back to parsing HTML.  

**Dave Longley:** I would be in favor of the link HTTP header solution,  
… even if it does not solve all problems.  
… I am against the reliance on HTML parser. This would break the ecosystem.  
… Also, we should not make decision on the features that github pages have *today*.  
… That may change in the future.  

**Benjamin Young:** (a cosmetic argument that I missed)  

**Ruben Taelman:** I don't see the benefit of the link header over conneg;  
… if a host supports one, it should supports the other, right?  

**Dave Longley:** some static sites can do link headers.  
… It requires less processing on the server side than conneg.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): minutes approved
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): turn blank node issue [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#h-issue-0) into a note to suggest new context authors avoid using `"@vocab": "_:"` as well as direct use of blank nodes as properties.
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): close [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/37) once blank node property issue is changed to a note
* [Resolution #4](#resolution4): close #103 as wontfix because the JSON-LD document would be treated as if it were alone--and not embedded.