---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-07-26
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-07-26
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-07-26-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-07-26",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-07-26",
            "endDate": "2019-07-26",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Simon Steyskal"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}


**Date:** 2019-07-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jul/0008.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/07/26-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Simon Steyskal, Benjamin Young, David I. Lehn, Dave Longley, Jeff Mixter

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Simon Steyskal

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of last call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of last call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-07-19-json-ld** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of last call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-07-19-json-ld***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** this is your standing reminder for TPAC  

> *Simon Steyskal:* [https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/](https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/)

### 3. Horizontal Reviews
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** continuing with horizontal review  

> *Rob Sanderson:* ref: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88)

**Rob Sanderson:** as anticipated, the privacy folks don't really know what to do with us  
… remark says it's not really a web api.. so you tell us  

**Benjamin Young:** I'm wondering there's any text we can add.. that we are not assuming Web === browser  
… we don't assume it inherits everything the browser dictates; we don't assume everything is HTTP(s)  
… the web is much larger than that  
… JSON-LD is already used in WoT  
… which will face the same challenges eventually  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#the-jsonldprocessor-interface](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/#the-jsonldprocessor-interface)

**Gregg Kellogg:** one issue we have is that webidl is heavily biased towards browsers  
… when I looked at that, I wasn't able to come up with anything better  

**Benjamin Young:** most specs are encouraged to use webidl  
… if we just make it clear that we use webidl because that's what everyone is supposed to be using  

**Rob Sanderson:** is there an example anyone can think of, where the api is defined via webidl but is obviously not supposed to be ran in the browser?  

> *Dave Longley:* [https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#Exposed](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#Exposed)

**Gregg Kellogg:** I added "exposed" because it wouldn't pass the pub check otherwise  

**Benjamin Young:** do we know if this exposed requirement is a new one?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** respec started complaining a week or so ago  
… they were tightening the screws everywhere recently, hence checking became more thorough  
… yeah respec is complaining now.. but it's possible it's also a TAG issue?  

**Benjamin Young:** do you have the PR/commit for it?  

**Rob Sanderson:** the webidl def. doesn't say "exposed" is mandatory  

> *Dave Longley:* [https://github.com/heycam/webidl/issues/365,](https://github.com/heycam/webidl/issues/365,) [https://github.com/heycam/webidl/pull/423](https://github.com/heycam/webidl/pull/423) <-- makes Exposed mandatory

**Rob Sanderson:** continuing with response to privacy  
… requests must not have any user describing state  

**Dave Longley:** that will cause problems  

**Rob Sanderson:** e.g. when you need auth.?  

**Dave Longley:** yeah.. including cookies and what not  

**Rob Sanderson:** is there anything else we can say? other than saying the same thing with different words?  
… I'll have a go at responding after the call..  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. Indexing with `@includes`
{: #section4-1}

> *Simon Steyskal:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19)

**Rob Sanderson:** this is one I brought up in the community group  
… gkellogg has implemented it  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19#issuecomment-513976987](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19#issuecomment-513976987)

**Rob Sanderson:** gkellogg had a bunch of questions which I tried to answer.. any thoughts/comments?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** regarding what I've implemented in the api doc  
… I've satisfied most/all requirements  
… node references work just as well (not for values though..)  
… if you add nesting though, this allows for it  
… any keyword that's included in an object would lead to colliding keywords.. so I added necessary wording for that  
… I was pretty happy with the way it turned out (we might want to bikeshed the term @included though)  

**Dave Longley:** there's a very large thread with lots of stuff in there..  
… is there an example of what the compact form would look like?  
… any pointers to this?  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207)

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#shared-value-indexing](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#shared-value-indexing)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#shared-value-indexing](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#shared-value-indexing)

**Dave Longley:** (example 103)  
… ex 105 shows the effects of adding nesting  
… if you need more things that need to be added, you may run into issues  
… with different aliases  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the idea is to have a single included block  

**Dave Longley:** so one has to hope that not more than one section is required  

**Gregg Kellogg:** well kinda like it's done with types  
… and folding  
… it could be done..  

**Dave Longley:** I've the feeling we are missing one more layer to make this complete and sound  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't really understand the uc. for needing more than one included block  

**Dave Longley:** [explained uc]  
… my only concern is that the second someone would come along needing > 1 included block  
… we would have to through this away and come up with something different  

**Gregg Kellogg:** refining the place where we out this in the API doc. might result in it not having to be thrown away though  
… btw. it wouldn't survive round-tripping though  
… [elaborating on some hacks to make it potentially round-trippable]  
… maybe using framing? haven't investigated this solution thoroughly though  
… possible but challenging.. without enough reason for doing it, it's probably not worth the time  

**Dave Longley:** just wanted to make sure there's no other trivial uc it stands in the way  

**Benjamin Young:** graph containers feel kinda similar  
… wondering whether the same sort of plumbing would work for this?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** @graph has the same req. though  
… included maps are purely syntactic  
… whereas @graph is a semantic entity  

**Rob Sanderson:** the uc was "Assuming a nested set of resources where leaf nodes are frequently repeated, it is difficult to find the definition of the node after compaction. Imagine a classification that is used on the second item in a list, and again on the 26th. It would be nice to have a place to look up the label for the classification, instead of repeating it on both 2 and 26. Similarly, information about repeated people, services, .."  
… or anything else could benefit from this pattern."  

**Dave Longley:** yeah.. that sounds to me like the reason we have framing for  

**Rob Sanderson:** we would still need to be able to expand it though  

**Gregg Kellogg:** framing isn't entirely for "pretty" compaction  
… [discussing ways of folding values in using framing]  
… it isn't something one would expect though  
… but that's something that would require a lot of changes to framing.. and I don't know whether we want to go down that road  

**Dave Longley:** maybe it's as simple as having a targeted @embed  
… it would be in there as a keyword  

**Rob Sanderson:** maybe we can resort to good old code rather than having to rely on framing or compaction for this  

**Dave Longley:** somewhat of a "meh" feeling...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** [explains what would happen if including happens as part of framing]  
… the included block would go in the frame  

**Rob Sanderson:** the intent is, when an API engineer gets an instance of the data  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://jsonapi.org/](https://jsonapi.org/)

**Rob Sanderson:** I mean this would be the eq. of always embedding which we can do today already  

**Benjamin Young:** it sounds in their case more like named graph inclusion  

> *Dave Longley:* seems like we need an `@default @graph` container

> *Dave Longley:* "included": {"@container": "@graph", "@graph": "@default"}

> *Dave Longley:* and then you can frame documents with "@embed": "some_top_level_key_to_embed_this_under"

**Benjamin Young:** if we include something like this, we have to clarify it's not the stuff jsonapi is talking about  

**Dave Longley:** I agree with what bigbluehat was saying  
… I'm wondering whether we need a default as I posted in irc  

> *Benjamin Young:* example 103 [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#included-values-to-be-expanded](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/207.html#included-values-to-be-expanded)

**Dave Longley:** so what the syntax would need is something like that (where it's saying it's not a named graph)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** in 103, it's value is a node object  
… before expansion it was a node IRI  
… it would be an ID graph/map  
… what it doesn't do is the nesting bit  
… where the value isn't folded back in base too  

**Benjamin Young:** `"@type": "@included"` would make a lot of sense  

**Rob Sanderson:** it would need to have some way of asserting that whatever the default graph is is not a new graph  
… that's just syntactic sugar  
… very similar to an ID map  

**Dave Longley:** I would very much prefer us to reuse existing stuff  
… instead of having a new feature for each uc  

**Rob Sanderson:** nested id map?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we somehow would have a toplvl id map  
… then we would have a place for that  

**Dave Longley:** a toplvl idmap could accomplish that.. maybe  

**Gregg Kellogg:** then we should put this on hold for now and figure out how we could do a toplvl id map  
… instead of @id leading to a named graph, maybe allowing @id @default  
… if you could look at the other issue that's in the agenda dlongley  

### 5. Adjourn
{: #section5}

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of last call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-07-19-json-ld
