---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-06-14
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-06-14
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-06-14-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-06-14",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-06-14",
            "endDate": "2019-06-14",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Adam Soroka"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Newbury"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2019-06-14

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jun/0012.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/06/14-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young, Gregg Kellogg, Dave Longley, Tim Cole, David Newbury, Adam Soroka, Jeff Mixter

**Regrets:** Rob Sanderson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call:  https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-06-07-json-ld
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +0

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +0

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: minutes approved.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. TPAC registration is open https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/ Early bird pricing ends June 21
{: #section2-1}

> *Adam Soroka:* some discussion of who is likely to attend TPAC

**Benjamin Young:** tickets are cheaper earlier  

#### 2.2. Horizontal Reviews
{: #section2-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues)

**Benjamin Young:** not all those issues are labelled as horizontal review  
… but we will fix that  
… there're i8n, accessibility, privacy, WoT, VC  

**Ivan Herman:** these are two different kinds of things: i8n, accessibility, privacy, and security  
… are required review  
… WoT and VC are major constituencies.  

**Benjamin Young:** if anyone has interests in these things, please volunteer  

**Ivan Herman:** for security we must notify the folks who do that  
… also for privacy, and for that we need one or two persons to join a PSIG meeting  
… for i8n and accessibility, I'm not quite sure, but we must contact APA WG  for i18n  
… we needn't decide today  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/88)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/89)

**Ivan Herman:** these things are important — they can stop us  

> *Benjamin Young:* our four horizontal review issues [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahorizontal-review](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahorizontal-review)

**Ivan Herman:** we cannot go to PR without these things being settled  
… but we should not be doing these things while we are in CR  
… if we want to go to CR, that creates a deadline  

**Benjamin Young:** so do we need this done before TPAC?  

**Ivan Herman:** well before  

**Benjamin Young:** we need to submit to these groups to start it off  
… let's say we need drafts of the required submissions done before the 28th  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we need to assign responsibility for these things  
… we ar looking for the impact of changes from 1.0->1.1 , not the complete review that was required for 1.0  

**Ivan Herman:** but we can have problems found in any layer of history  

**Benjamin Young:** there are new fertile ground for review in our new features for security like @protected  
… . we should start sooner rather than later  
… I'll leave these other two (security and privacy) unassigned  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. 2019-06-07-action2: test if `@prefix: false` without `@id` works as expected (Pierre-Antoine Champin) #87
{: #section3-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* issue #87 [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/87](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/87)

> *Benjamin Young:* born from #76 [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/76](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/76)

> *Ivan Herman:* original-original: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/177](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/177)

**Benjamin Young:** next two issues are related  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** some background: it was possible to define certain URI schemes as prefixes  
… leading to confusing them with the start of CURIs  
… I tried to alter @prefix to avoid this  
… but that turns out not to be possible  
… . so @prefix must be accompanied by @id  
… even if you accept ruben's alteration, it is still not simple  
… @prefix is only used during compaction as a hint to the algo  
… but never it is used in expansion  
… to block interpretation as a CURI  
… so doing this with `@prefix` would radically change the meaning of @prefix, to add an effect during expansion  
… this thing will come back and bite other people than us  

> *Adam Soroka:* .. users would expect `@prefix` to work both ways

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** but that may have real effects on implementors  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes, `@prefix`is only meaningful during compaction  
… in 1.0 any prefix could be used  
… so we made some changes  
… including restrictions and a keyword `@prefix` to overcome them  
… we do run into 1.0 compatibility issues here  
… but this is something we just didn't complete  
… it's not a major rewrite  
… now we are forcing the use of expanded term defns for things that used to be simple prefixes  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to what gregg is saying ... it seems to mostly be restricted to very local change in IRI expansion where we need one extra flag check

**Gregg Kellogg:** the impact isn't too bad on the algos  
… we did make changes to limit the use of prefixes during compaction, we should make the same changes for expansion  

**Ivan Herman:** I thikn this issue arose in a different ticket ^^^^  
… I have said before that we shouldn't add too many things to the spec  
… do we really have to do anything about #177?  
… does it occur significantly in 1.0 usage?  
… do we need to spend two meetings on it?  
… i don't think so. my feeling is that we should either close or defer  
… we struggled whether this is really a security issue  
… it can be awkward  
… in several years it did not bite us  

**Benjamin Young:** we haven't had `@prefix` very long either!  

**Ivan Herman:** but it's not a matter of just `@prefix`  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I agree with ivan  
… I'm not convinced that this is a security issue  
… . I'm not convinced that `@prefix` would be a good way to solve it if it were  

> *Adam Soroka:* .. getting this right with `@prefix` would be challenging

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** `@prefix` was introduced for other reasons  
… the way we have it now is counterintuitive  
… we were all talking last week about using it this way without even realizing we couldn't. that's not good!  

**Gregg Kellogg:** when we introduced the restrictions for prefixes, we overlooked expansion  
… we left the job partly done  

**Ivan Herman:** we are adding features and making the spec more complicated  

**Gregg Kellogg:** is inconsistency complicated?  

**Ivan Herman:** we are complicating the spec a few months before we try to get to CR  

**Dave Longley:** I sympathize with ivan  
… if we consider this a security issue, then `@prefix` is not how we should address it  
… we could instead introduce a rule that you don't expand prefixes when `@vocab = true`  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I agree with dlongley; that would solve the problem but burn all the fields  

**Ivan Herman:** I propose that we defer one of the two  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't think we can roll back prefix  
… it fixes actual errors in 1.0  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I suggest we make no decision before the next agenda item  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I can do a speculative PR  

**Benjamin Young:** let's go to the next issue, discuss, then come back to this  

#### 3.2. compaction changes the meaning of absolute IRIs in some cases #104
{: #section3-2}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/104](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/104)

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** the problem: through compaction, I can end up with a different graph than I started with  
… i thin this is a 1.0 problem as well  

> *Adam Soroka:* .. there are examples in the issue that display the problem

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** there is shown an IRI that is indistinguishable from an IRI.  
… you can tell which it is only from context  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are other things that you can add to a context that would change the interpretation of things  
… [gives example of similar phenomenon using lang tags]  
… this goes right back the previous discussion  
… you might want to say here that @prefix=false  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to `@prefix: false` to solve this

**Gregg Kellogg:** which could impact the expansion algo to not use it in this case  
… but that could still be surprising  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* `{ "http://ex.co/prop": "foo" }`

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** consider my example above  
… and compact it with a context that I just recited out loud  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is no compaction w/o expansion  
… but what is the context used for expansion?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** okay, yeah. I didn't want to show expansion for brevity  
… i can get this phenomenon using the same context for compaction and expansion  

**Dave Longley:** adding the context he verbalized, you can no longer distinguish between the two uses of the term  

**Gregg Kellogg:** even with a mechanism to prevent that, mistakes will appear  
… if this was one line in 10,000 triples  
… it might get missed  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** if I expand and compact with the same context, it should round-trip, right?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes  
… but the semantics would change  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** if we had a way to say that something isn't a CURIE  
… that would solve it  

> *Adam Soroka:* .. compaction should protect certain IRIS

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** when compaction sees a term matching an IRI scheme, the problem can arise  
… I made three proposals, bt I prefer the third  
… i don't like µsyntax, but...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** a 4th proposal is to use @prefix=false during expansion  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I can't always move my data out of th way of this  
… . my contexts may be coming from someone else  

**Gregg Kellogg:** `@prefix=false` can prevent this problem. maybe not perfectly  
… going back to the dawn of time, we had to make some choice because of JSON  
… this may be a bubble we are pushing around,  

**Dave Longley:** I would formally object to proposal 3; I hate µsyntaxes  
… this might be a corner case we can't solve because of previous decisions, in the sense that  
… there may be contexts you just can't use with your data  
… I wish we had not done CURIEs at all  
… it was probably a mistake  
… they introduce surprise  
… we may have to accept certain corner cases  
… it might require some kind of processing mode change, it might be a 2.0 issue  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 to dlongley

**Benjamin Young:** we are wrangling a pass the of issues  
… gkellogg: do you still think we could make `@prefix` clearer?  

> *Dave Longley:* `@prefix: false` would solve this in *some cases*

**Gregg Kellogg:** we already detect whether a term could be used as a prefix  
… it's an addition of ½ a line  
… it's a simple change  
… it's gets more complicated when we bring in different modes  
… but the easy play is to make it symmetrical from compaction to expansion  
… which would solve #104  
… by offering a context author a way to avoid that problem  
… it might solve #87 or #76  

**Benjamin Young:** this merits an action at this point, not resolution  

> ***Action #1: write another proposed solution to #104 (which may also solve for #87 or perhaps #76) (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** i agree with this action, but I don't think it will solve #104  
… where dlongely's position is my solution 1  
… some contexts simply cannot work with some data  
… if we cannot provide a solution, we should at least have an answer ready  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if you create the opportunity for this collision, we should raise a warning  

> *Dave Longley:* it's an error

> *Dave Longley:* in my view

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** one could bring in a local context  

**gkelllogg:** bleh  

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): minutes approved.

### 5. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): write another proposed solution to #104 (which may also solve for #87 or perhaps #76) (Gregg Kellogg)
