---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-02-15
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-02-15
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-02-15

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Feb/0017.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/02/15-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young, Dave Longley, Rob Sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Adam Soroka, Simon Steyskal, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Tim Cole, Jeff Mixter

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of Face to Face
{: #section1}

**Rob Sanderson:** there are some questions here  
… on Friday, we discussed some complicated issue about framing,  
… but the issue referenced in the minutes seems to be the wrong one  

**Ivan Herman:** I put a PR with the change fixing this: https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/pull/28  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the issue that we originally discussed was the overloading of bnode  
… while the issue we referenced is the use of bnode in frames, which I don't think is controversial  

> **Proposed resolution: Approve the minutes of the F2F, with the changes for the framing issue *actually* discussed rather than the issue number recorded** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve the minutes of the F2F, with the changes for the framing issue *actually* discussed rather than the issue number recorded*** {: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Administrivia
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** thank you everyone who attended the F2F  
… (either in person on remotely)  

#### 2.1. meeting with the TAG
{: #section2-1}

**Benjamin Young:** a while ago, we took it to the TAG for some "HTML & JSON-LD" related discussion  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312#issuecomment-463373808](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312#issuecomment-463373808)

**Benjamin Young:** we have proposed a few date for them to attend one of our calls  
… this might be either March 1 or March 15  

**Benjamin Young:** some members of the TAG have some ideas about relations between JSON-LD and HTML modules  
… which are part of the future "Web component" standard  
… It is not clear what exactly they want to discuss, but this might have deep relations with the future of HTML.  
… It also seems that Google is planning to include some JSON-LD processing in their Lighthouse tool.  
… Some JSON-LD is becoming more and more coupled with HTML.  

**Ivan Herman:** It would be could if they could provide some pointers in advance,  
… so that we can look at them before the call,  
… this will make the discussion more interesting.  

**Benjamin Young:** I'll check with Travis and Alex if they want to address Lighthouse,  
… and I can provide some pointers on the list.  
… Let's have the TAG join our call on the 1st of march.  

#### 2.2. WG Timing
{: #section2-2}

**Rob Sanderson:** We intend to have our first CR by the end of summer.  
… We propably have the time for 2 CR, then PR, and our REC on June 2020.  
… We need to set a date beyond which new features will not be accepted.  
… I would propose March 1st, and publicize this date.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** people need to understand which features we currently have.  
… I suggest that we wait for a couple of weeks after the WD is published,  
… which will be hard to achieve by March 1st.  

**Rob Sanderson:** we can wait until the end of March, then.  

#### 2.3. Implementation tracking
{: #section2-3}

**Benjamin Young:** the plan is for Rob and I to write a blog post to call for implementations.  
… I also hope to go through a list of existing implementations, and reach out to each of those project, to suggest them to implement 1.1 features.  
… If anyone has any contact with / contributes to one of these groups, please take an action to notify them.  
… Also, let me know if you know about other implementations not registered on json-ld.org .  

**Rob Sanderson:** our hope is to have more than the minimum 2 implementations for each feature.  

> *David I. Lehn:* would be great if we could at least get implementations to be able to run the 1.1 test suite, even if they just ignore all the marked 1.1 tests.

**Gregg Kellogg:** we need to highlight those implementations that do not have the resource at the moment to implement all 1.1 features.  
… we must encourage people to contribute PR to those.  

**Ivan Herman:** the list I see on json-ld.org are the developers of 1.0  
… we should have a marker for those that implement 1.1  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to adding some notation about implementations that support or will support 1.1

**Gregg Kellogg:** the test-suite page on json-ld.org now shows/redirects the location of the new test suite  

#### 2.4. General Outreach
{: #section2-4}

**Rob Sanderson:** then there is some outreach and dissemination to be done  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we could update json-ld.org to announce some of the coming features in 1.1  
… the only thing it says for the moment is that the WG has been launched  

> ***Action #1: Benjamin Young to update json-ld.org home page for 1.1 coming features***
{: #action1 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** I thought we were talking about the WH homepage.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it wouldn't hurt to update that one as well.  
… we could use the wiki for that.  

**Rob Sanderson:** ivan, pchampin and gkellogg are going to the Berlin workshop (https://www.w3.org/Data/events/data-ws-2019/)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** danbri should be here as well  

### 3. Sealed Contexts' timing
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** a discussion started yesterday about the decisions made during F2F about sealed contexts  
… we need to see to which extent the current proposal works and does not work with existing use cases;  
… we have spent several week and close to half the F2F time to talk about it;  
… continuing is not in the interest of the group.  

**Dave Longley:** We plan on implementing next week and we'll engage on Github  
… we are globally happy with the decision of the F2F,  
… but we need sealing to be a little more restrictive.  
… We will come up with an implementation of what we need.  

**Rob Sanderson:** this will help to assess how much additional complexity is required  

**Gregg Kellogg:** what we have been looking at *was* doable (I did implement it),  
… but we still decided that it added too much complexity.  
… That being said, I'm happy to discuss with you about it.  

**Dave Longley:** All we want to do is add constraints on when the context can be cleared with 'null'.  
… We don't think it adds that much complexity.  

### 4. Framing blank node unnamed graphs (Issue frame27)
{: #section4}

**Rob Sanderson:** the issue is about Framing blank node unnamed graphs  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/27](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/27)

**Dave Longley:** I have an example of a document with a graph container,  
… and couldn't to get the same document as my input using framing.  
… It seems to defeat the purpose of framing.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** It is true that this should be possible,  
… but I doubt we can address that problem before the next publication.  

**Rob Sanderson:** should there be a note in the next WD about that issue?  

> **Proposed resolution: Leave framing 27 open, and to investigate the cause. Record open issue in the next PWD of Framing.** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Gregg Kellogg:** this would appear in the list of open issue that we append to each WD  

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** given the low number of open issue, I would prefer some editor text to make the issue more visible  

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Leave framing 27 open, and to investigate the cause. Record open issue in the next PWD of Framing.*** {: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* once we get sealed contexts working the way we need we might be able to look into addressing this one next

> *Dave Longley:* (we == Digital Bazaar)

### 5. Class-scoped Framing (issue frame29)
{: #section5}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/29](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/29)

**Rob Sanderson:** framing is like programming by example;  
… you need to know the exact structure from the root down.  
… For some properties (like "link" or "tag"),  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/29#issuecomment-463295607](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/29#issuecomment-463295607)

**Rob Sanderson:** you would need to be able to say "anywhere this property appears, it should conform with this structure"  
… but this is not currently possible.  

**Ivan Herman:** isn't it related to the issue I raised recently, while reading the framing document ([issue 38](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/38))?  
… We can not currently have a "bush-shaped" frame, with several patterns,  
… the first matching one being used.  
… Wouldn't it solve your issue as well?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think it is possible to have a bush.  

**Ivan Herman:** not for the pattern itself.  

> *Dave Longley:* this is pretty close: [http://tinyurl.com/y356yzo8](http://tinyurl.com/y356yzo8)

> *Dave Longley:* to what Ivan wants -- in JSON-LD 1.0 framing

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think your particular example could still be solved.  
… I'm not sure this completely addresses what Rob wants.  
… This is more like a "macro" feature.  
… It is somehow similar to scoped contexts... Something like a scoped frame.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to similarity (but not identity) to scoped contexts

**Dave Longley:** I think that what Ivan wants is similar.  
… And I do think that there is a gap in the current framing document.  
… It makes sense for us to create like a 'type frame'.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* If we do it for types, we should probably do it for properties, too

> *Dave Longley:* something like `@anywhere` makes sense to me as well ... defining "subframes" at the top of the frame that get applied when certain types or properties are encountered

> *Rob Sanderson:* `@frame` :D

**Gregg Kellogg:** we might define something parallel to contexts, that could appear anywhere contexts can appear,  

> **Proposed resolution: Work on a proposal for solving framing#29 along the lines of embedded contexts / scoped contexts, but for embedded sub-frames** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Work on a proposal for solving framing#29 along the lines of embedded contexts / scoped contexts, but for embedded sub-frames*** {: #resolution3 .resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* We should look to ShEx and SHACL for similar patterns we might leverage

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve the minutes of the F2F, with the changes for the framing issue *actually* discussed rather than the issue number recorded
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Leave framing 27 open, and to investigate the cause. Record open issue in the next PWD of Framing.
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Work on a proposal for solving framing#29 along the lines of embedded contexts / scoped contexts, but for embedded sub-frames

### 7. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Benjamin Young to update json-ld.org home page for 1.1 coming features